2024 conf recap blog (#18)
pytexas/pytexas.github.io: foundation/docs/blog/posts/2024-conference-recap.md

this year. So let's jump into it.

## What Was New This Year?

This year we decided to try something new (a hybrid conference experience) and 
bring back something old (tutorials). 

### Hybrid Conference

During the pandemic many conferences moved to virtual formats, and as they 
returned to in-person activities, they included a hybrid experience. PyTexas 2020
was originally planned as an in-person event that shifted to virtual out of necessity.
In 2021 the organizers decided to take a hiatus and evaluate the situation again
in 2022. In 2022, PyTexas was the first Python conference globally to come back
in-person in March, just prior to PyCon US in Salt Lake City. At that time, funding
and staffing were _severely_ limited, so we were unable to do a hybrid experience.
These limitations continued into 2023, leading to a in-person only conference for
both years.

However, in 2024, we were finally staffed and financially stable enough to experiment
with a hybrid conference. We decided to take a more novel approach and run our
hybrid conference through the [PyTexas Discord Server](https://discord.gg/jNPAbcNukj).

> We have been building a community on Discord since 2022, which hosts our virtual

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have been building a community on Discord since 2022, which now hosts our virtual
```

meetup, so we thought it would be a good experiment to hold our virtual conference
there. 

We are happy to report that our hybrid conference was a success. We sold 43 virtual
tickets, and attendees who had an in-person ticket were also able to join the virtual
experience. We had many in-person attendees thank us for this experience, as some
had to step out for brief periods and were still able to attend the conference.

One thing we strived for this year was to blend the in-person and virtual experience
as much as possible so attendees from both would be able to interact with each other. 
We did this a few ways. First, we encouraged people to chat in a conference-specific
Discord text chat. Both in-person and virtual attendees engaged with each other
and bridged the gap. We were very pleased with the level of interaction that was
occurring. Next, we used [Slido](https://www.slido.com/) for all speaker questions.
This decision was highly praised by both attendees and speakers alike. Slido

> allowed us to have attendees, either remote or in-person, ask anonymous questions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
allowed us to have attendees, either remote or in-person, ask questions
```

I don't think anonymity matters here

to the speaker during their talk. Other attendees could see these questions and 
upvote the ones they also wanted to ask. We had our organizers moderating the 
questions and approving them prior to being visible, which allowed us to ensure
safety for our speakers and attendees. The questions were then asked _into the
microphone_ on stage by our emcees, allowing the speaker to answer and the question
to be recorded on video. This sped up our Q&A portion and made speakers feel 
more comfortable answering questions.

Overall, the hybrid experience was a success, and we look forward to continuing
with it in the future. 

### Tutorials 

Tutorials are not new to the PyTexas Conference, but it is the first time we've 
had tutorials since 2017.  Long-time attendee, speaker, and Keynoter 
[Andrew "Pandy" Knight](https://www.pytexas.org/2024/schedule/tutorials/#def-test_my_code_with_pytest) 
and organizer [Mason Egger](https://www.pytexas.org/2024/schedule/tutorials/#def-test_my_code_with_pytest) delivered the tutorials this year. We did not hold

> an open CFP for tutorials this year, but instead invited our presenters. We made

Reviewer: ```suggestion
an open CFP for tutorials this year, but instead preselected our presenters. We made
```
"Invited" feels weird in this context/sentence

this choice because we weren't sure what the turnout would be for the tutorials,

> so we decided to invite people who are known PyTexas regulars who would attend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
so we decided to select people who are known PyTexas regulars who would attend
```

either way and were willing to take the gamble on attendance. 

> However, tutorials were a smashing success. We sold 97 tutorial tickets this year, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fortunately, tutorials were a smashing success. We sold 97 tutorial tickets this year, 
```
Use a "positive" word

> which were an add-on to the main conference. This ticket gave access to both tutorials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which were an add-on to the main conference and gave access to both tutorials.
```

Nearly every tutorial ticket holder checked in and attended at least one tutorial,
with the vast majority attending both. 

The community reaction to tutorials was universally strong and we're excited
to bring tutorials back next year. We're still deciding if we're going to open
a CFP for tutorials next year, but signs are trending in that direction.

### Friends of PyTexas

On the second day of the conference we announced our new [Friends of PyTexas](https://www.pytexas.org/sponsorship/friends/)

> program. This program allows community members to support the PyTexas foundation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
program. This program allows community members to financially support the PyTexas foundation
```

    * **14.1%** from Houston
    * **12.7%** from Dallas - Fort Worth
    * **9.9%** from San Antonio
    * **4.2%** from other areas in Texas
* **13.9%** are from other states within the United States
* **4.6%** were from outside the United States

**Roles**

* **42.8%** - Software Engineer
* **11.6%** - Students
* **8.7%** - Marketing/Sales/Business
* **8.1%** - DevOps
* **6.4%** - Data Science
* **5.2%** - Hobbyist/Enthusiast
* **4.6%** - Executive/Senior Leadership
* The rest consists of ML Engineers, Security, People Managers, Product Management, QA

**Experience**

* **11.6%** - Less than 1 year
* **24.9%** - 1 to 3 years 
* **20.2%** - 4 to 7 years
* **20.2%** - 7 to 15 years
* **23.1%** - 15+ years

**Orders by Day**

![PyTexas Orders By Day](/assets/images/blog/2024-conference-recap/PyTexas-2024-Ticket-Sales.PNG)

A few conclusions we've made based on ticket sales this year and years prior:

* You have your "regulars" who attend every year. They will take advantage of
early bird sales.
* Announcements drive ticket sales. We saw noticeable increases after we announced
keynotes, tutorials, speakers, etc.
    * The largest increase was after we released the schedule.

> * You will still sell a majority of your tickets in the month leading up to the event.

Reviewer: The tense between sentences seems to change.

Author: I'm not quite sure how to change this. Open to suggestions though. As it stands it's understandable though.

## Sponsors

Sponsorship in the return to in-person conferences world have been few and far
between. We are immensely grateful our sponsors this year, 
[Temporal Technologies](https://temporal.io) and [AppSignal](https://www.appsignal.com/)
for their support. We also want to thank the [Python Software Foundation](https://python.org)
for their generous grant. 

Without them certain portions of our event would simply not have been possible 

> from a financial standpoint. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Without them certain portions of our event would simply not have been financially possible. 
```

### Statistics
This year we brought in **$12,750** from sponsorships and grants. We reached out
to roughly 50 companies this year to sponsor PyTexas. When they responded, the
response was usually:
* We aren't sponsoring events right now.
* You aren't big enough for us to consider.
* We haven't finalized event plans, we'll get back to you.

We publish this information not to shame companies who aren't sponsoring. We 
understand the current economic climate. We write this so that other conference
organizers who are experiencing the same thing don't feel like it's just them.
It's everyone.

## Finances

PyTexas 2024 cost **$36,657.59** to operate. The largest budget items for us
were venue, catering, A/V, and our after party. We sold 319 tickets of varying cost, 
including add-ons such as shirts, tutorials, and the after party, and made **$36,545.00**

> in gross revenue (prior ot fees). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
in gross revenue (prior to fees). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
```

year that ticket sales were able to completely fund the conference. This was possible
due to the increase in capacity for in-person, plus the addition of a virtual ticket.

All excess funds from this year will be used to fund ongoing PyTexas programs such
as the meetup, infrastructure costs, and any future PyTexas event (such as the [PyTexas 2025 Conference](https://pytexas.org/2025)).

## Speakers

This was by far one of the most exciting speaker lineups we've ever had! We continue
to get compliments on how good the talks were and how much everyone enjoyed them.
This year we were overjoyed to invite [Lynn Root](https://www.roguelynn.com/) 
and [Carol Willing](https://www.willingconsulting.com/) to keynote this year. Both

> gave _phenomenal_ keynotes that people kept raving about. From teaching Python,

Reviewer: I think maybe start a new paragraph? This last sentence feels like it applies to the keynotes.

Author: Good call out. Done.

We had a _great_ selection of diverse speakers this year. Here's a more in-depth
breakdown of this years speakers:

#### Speaker Race/Ethnicity

![Speaker Race Statistics](/assets/images/blog/2024-conference-recap/speaker-race.png)

* **63.6%** - White/Caucasian
* **22.7%** - Asian/Pacific Islander
* **4.5%** - Jewish
* **4.5%** - Black or African American
* **4.5%** - Hispanic

#### Speaker Gender

![Speaker Gender Statistics](/assets/images/blog/2024-conference-recap/speaker-gender.png)

* **59.1%** - Male
* **31.8%** - Female
* **4.5%** - Non-binary
* **4.5%** - Prefer not to say

#### Speaker Professional Role

![Speaker Role Statistics](/assets/images/blog/2024-conference-recap/speaker-role.png)

* **27.3%** - Data Scientist
* **18.2%** - Developer Relations
* **13.6%** - DevOps
* **9.1%** - Academic (Teacher, Professor, etc)
* **9.1%** - QA
* **9.1%** - Machine Learning Engineer
* **4.5%** - Senior Leadership
* **4.5%** - Cyber Security
* **4.5%** - Student

#### Speaker Location

![Speaker Location Statistics](/assets/images/blog/2024-conference-recap/speaker-location.png)

* **86.4%** - Outside of Texas but within the United States
* **13.6%** - Texas Resident

> ## Opportunity Grants

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Opportunity Grants

```

Every year we offer opportunity grants to community members who request assistance

> to attend PyTexas. In 2023 we provided $1000 to two members of our community so 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to attend PyTexas. In 2023 we provided a total of $1000 to two members of our community so 
```

they could attend. This year we were proud to be able to **more than double** the

> amount of money we were able to disperse. This year we provided $2500 to five

Reviewer: ```suggestion
amount of money we were able to disperse. This year we provided a total of $2500 to five
```

---
title: 2024 Conference Recap
date: 2024-04-28
categories: 
    - Conference Updates
authors:
    - masonegger
---

The annual PyTexas Conference was held at the Austin Central Library April 19 

> - 21, 2024 in Austin, TX. It was our largest conference yet, and we're excited

Reviewer 2: This might render differently, but in the markdown preview this becomes a bulletpoint

Reviewer: Oh yeah might need a newline before

Author: This is rendering fine on mkdocs. Hooray for different markdown processors.
